
s-PROCESS
=========

The s-process requires a low neutron flux and operates on a timescale where the
capture process is slow compared to the beta-decay, so the neutron capture
happens after the beta-decay takes place. The creation of new nuclei moves along
the valley of stability. (Battistini & Bensby, 2015; B2FH 1957)

The s-process produces roughly half of the elements between Fe and Bi and can
occur in massive stars, in the He burning core, the convective C burning shell,
and asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars evolved from lower mass stars at solar
or lower metallicity. (Battistini & Bensby, 2015; Pignatari et al, 2010,
Bisterzo et al, 2011)

Most of the s-process elements between Fe and Sr are produced in massive (M > 8)
stars and contribute to the weak s-process, while the main s-process takes place
in AGB stars (1.3 < M < 8). (Pignatari et al, 2010; Kappeler et al, 1989; Beer
et al, 1992)

The main source of neutrons in massive stars is the 22Ne(a,n)25Mg reaction which
turns of at the end of the convective He burning core and in the following
convective C burning shell. (Pignatari et al, 2010; Peters 1968; Couch et al,
1974; Lamb et al, 1977; Prantzos et al 1990; Raiteri et al 1991b; Raiteri et al,
1991a)

The s-process activates once the central temperature of the He core is higher
than 0.25 GK with the 22Ne(a,n)25Mg reaction, which exhausts the supply of alpha
particles. (Pignatari et al, 2010)

Since not all 22Ne is used up, the s-process is reactivated during C burning,
with additional alpha particles provided by the 12C(12C,a)20Ne reaction.
(Pignatari et al, 2010; Prantzos et al, 1990; Arnett & Truran, 1969; Raiteri et
al, 1991a)

The 22Ne(a,n) reaction powers the weak component of the s-process, responsible
for nucleosynthesis in the mass range A = 60-90. (Goerres et al, 2000; 4; 5)

This second s-process takes place in the convective shell, since any C burning
nucleosynthesis in the core will collapse following the SN explosion, and the
neutron flux and exposure are comparable to that during He burning. (Pignatari
et al, 2010; Raiteri et al, 1991a)


STELLAR H BURNING
=================

Massive stars preferentially fuse H into He via the CNO cycles, which work to
convert the initial catalytic isotopes (12C and 16O, primarily) into 14N.
(Goerres et al, 2000; 2)


STELLAR He BURNING
==================

Stellar He burning is the dominant energy source in red giant stars, dominated
by the triple alpha reaction. (Goerres et al, 2000; Rolfs & Wodney, 1988)

He burning phases within stars are relatively cool, so the neutron production
for the s-Process doesn't ignite until the end of core burning and the core
contracts gravitationally. (Goerres et al, 2000)


14N(a,g)18F
===========

22Ne abundance in the He core is produced from initial CNO isotopes which are
converted to 14N during H burning and then 22Ne via 18F(b+)18O(a,g)22Ne.
(Pignatari et al, 2010)

Reaction rate within the stellar temperature range is determined by low energy
resonances. (Goerres et al, 2000)

The rate is dominated by a Jpi = 1- resonance at E_alpha = 572 keV (lab) within
the stellar temperature range 0.1-0.5 GK. At higher temperatures, additional
resonances at 1136, 1398, 1527, 1529, and 1618 keV become important. At lower
temperatures, the low-energy tail of the 572 keV resonance, direct capture, and
a Jpi = 4+, T=1 resonance at 305 keV come into play. (Goerres et al, 2000; 7-9)


PAPERS
======

Awakening of the DRAGON (S. Engel, PhD thesis)
----------------------------------------------


Low-energy resonances in 14N(a,g)18F (Goerres et al, 2000)
----------------------------------------------------------

Steller He burning dominant for red giant stars' energy production.

H burning produces He which is burned through triple-alpha and 12C(a,g)16O

Depending on mass of star, either pp or CNO is dominant H burning

For post-CNO, 14N from that phase breeds neutron source for weak s-process
