\chapter{EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE}
\label{ch:experimental-procedure}

% \begin{center}\textit{Alphas have more mass because they spend so much
% time at the gym getting swole. \---{} Laura Moran}\end{center}

An experimental campaign to study the \alpa{} reaction with the St.\
George recoil separator was undertaken at the NSL. Runs were completed
in December 2016 and February 2017, with runs focusing on determining
the correct magnetic fields within St.\ George completed in Fall 2016
and February 2017. Two low energy resonances were measured with beam
currents in the $2-3$~$\mu$A range in February 2017. Studying this
reaction provides a test of the angular and energy acceptances of St.\
George in preparation for studying $(\alpha,\gamma)$ reactions across a
wide range of targets and energies.

The first portion of these runs fall under general St.\ George
commissioning work as discussed in Chapter~\ref{ch:commissioning} and
will not be repeated here. The second portion of the runs involved
characterizing the target and the detector, finalizing the optimal
settings for the separator, and performing the experiment. The reaction
of interest produces $\alpha$ particles in the energy range of $2-3$~MeV
for the desired proton energy range.


\section{Altered Tune}

The magnet settings for St.\ George were determined to transport
$\alpha$ particles, where the entirety of the particle envelope is
described by a characteristic energy and angular [term]. The produced
$\alpha$ particles had a low (values?) energy spread and a high angular
spread, where only those particles emitted within the desired 40~mrad
acceptance cone for St.\ George were tuned to reach the detector focal
plane $F_2$ after the Wien filter and impinge the installed Si strip
detector.

The restrictions on the beam spot for measuring $(\rm{p}\alpha)$
reactions at this focal plane require an approximately symmetric spot
size in both directions and one that is smaller than the physical face
of the detector, whereas the standard tune for studying
$(\alpha,\gamma)$ reactions required that beam spot to be asymmetric
with the beam spot being narrow in the dispersive $x$-plane and tall in
the $y$-plane. The initial COSY code for St.\ George (see
Section~\ref{sec:cosy}) was altered to model the shortened separator and
provide information on the beam characteristics at the new detector
focal plane. The magnetic field settings for the seven quadrupoles
$Q_{1-7}$ were adjusted to transport the recoil particles to the
detector plane with a final beam spot no larger than the face of the Si
detector of $58\times 58$~mm. Final pole tip fields are given in
Table~\ref{tab:poletip}.

\begin{table}
    \begin{center}
        \caption{POLE TIP FIELDS FOR $(\alpha,\gamma)$ AND
            $(\rm{p},\alpha)$ STUDIES}
        \label{tab:poletip}
        \begin{tabular}{cS[table-format=2.9]S[table-format=2.6]}
            \toprule
            \midrule
             & \multicolumn{2}{c}{\textbf{Pole Tip Field [T]}} \\
            \textbf{Quadrupole} & {$(\alpha,\gamma)$} &
            {$(\rm{p},\alpha)$} \\
            \midrule
            1  & -0.16303276 & -0.157\\
            2  &  0.18882363 &  0.187\\
            3  &  0.09384148 &  0.09411\\
            4  & -0.12620402 & -0.04\\
            5  &  0.10032405 &  0.092 \\
            6  &  0.04693654 &  0.0585 \\
            7  &  0.0        & -0.015 \\
            8  & -0.09779179 & \\
            9  &  0.17439627 & \\
            10 &  0.21092228 & \\
            11 & -0.13962355 & \\
            \bottomrule
        \end{tabular}
    \end{center}
\end{table}

For the $(\rm{p},\alpha)$ experiment, the transported $\alpha$ particles
have the properties listed in Table~\ref{tab:alpha_prop}. The incident
proton beam is rejected within the COSY ion optics solution after the
first dipole doublet $B_1B_2$, and the beam properties are not listed
here.

\begin{table}
    \begin{center}
        \caption{ALPHA PARTICLE PROPERTIES}
        \label{tab:alpha_prop}
        \begin{tabular}{cc}
            \toprule
            \midrule
            \textbf{Property [Unit]} & \textbf{Value} \\
            \midrule
            Energy [MeV]        & 2.504 \\
            $\Delta$Energy [\%] & 3 \\
            Angular spread [mrad] & 40 \\
            Target diameter [mm] & 3 \\
            $Q$ [$e$]           & 2 \\
            $B\rho$ [Tm]        & 0.228 \\
            $E\rho$ [MV]        & 4.0 \\
            \bottomrule
        \end{tabular}
    \end{center}
\end{table}



\section{Experimental Considerations}

\subsection{Beam Reduction}
Incident proton beam reduction on the order of $10^{10} - 10^{14}$ are
required to avoid damaging the Si detector and observing off-resonance
yields of the produced $\alpha$ particles. These limits are within the
designed capabilities of St.\ George but must be verified experimentally

% Glenlivet 12 Year



\section{Procedure}

The procedure for performing the \alpa{} measurements is divided between
the experimental procedure and the procedure to measure a single energy
point for clarity. Verification of the initial field settings of St.\
George was discussed in Section~[REFERENCE] as is assumed for the
remainder of this discussion.

\subsection{Campaign Procedure}



\subsection{Run Procedure}

At each energy point, preliminary runs were performed to verify the
field settings of St.\ George and determine the systematic uncertainties
of the tune. Following these checks, a final measurement at that energy
was performed until the statistical uncertainty was below 1\,\% for
on-resonance points and below 5\,\% for off-resonance points.




\section{Data Reduction and Analysis}

Each region of interest covered a single narrow resonance from the
\alpa{} reaction. Extraction of resonance parameters from these regions
required a data analysis pipeline to process the individual spectra from
each strip of the Si detector and the detector spectra as a whole.
Detection systematic uncertainties were determined individually for each
energy measure prior to the final measurement at that energy. Target
effects on the incident beam and produced $\alpha$ particles were
explored [HOW?].

\subsection{Experimental Systematics}
The properties of the target, detector, and separator for the given
experiment were explored through various means before, during, and after
the data collection phase. Where applicable, the properties were
compared to anticipated or predicted values. Differences between
operating and testing conditions may be a cause of certain discrepancies
within the detector spectra, as discussed below.

\subsubsection{Target Properties}
The self-supporting \nuc{27}{Al} target was measured to have a thickness
of $62.50 \pm 0.05$~$\mu$g/cm$^2$. Target thickness was measured using
an offline detector station with a \nuc{241}{Am}/\nuc{148}{Gd} mixed
$\alpha$ source. Runs with and without the target foil between the
source and the detector lasted 600~s. The annular Si detector was not
able to resolve the lowest intensity \nuc{241}{Am} peak during the runs,
and only the highest intensity peak could be reliably resolved in the
spectrum obtained with the target in place. The two spectra are shown in
Fig.~\ref{fig:calibration}, and the $\alpha$-particle peaks are given in
Table~\ref{tab:calibration}.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \begin{center}
        \centerline{\includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]%
            {figures/target_thickness.png}} \caption[Target thickness
            measurement]{Target thickness measurement, showing the shift
            in the $\alpha$ peaks to lower energies due to the presence
            of the target. The initial spectrum is in green and the
            degraded spectrum is in orange. Only the energy range of
            interest is shown.}
        \label{fig:calibration}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

\begin{table}
    \begin{center}
        \caption{ALPHA PARTICLE ENERGIES FOR \nuc{241}{Am}/\nuc{148}{Gd}
            MIXED SOURCE}
        \label{tab:calibration}
        \begin{tabular}{cS[table-format=5.3]% S[table-format=3.1,
                table-space-text-post=\,\%]}
            \toprule
            \midrule
            {\textbf{Isotope}} & {$\mathbf{E_{\alpha}}$\textbf{ [keV]}}
                & {\textbf{Intensity}} \\
            \midrule
            \nuc{148}{Gd} & 3182.69 & 100\,\% \\
            \nuc{241}{Am} & 5388    &   1.6\,\% \\
                          & 5442.8  &  13.1\,\% \\
                          & 5485.56 &  84.8\,\% \\
            \bottomrule
        \end{tabular}
    \end{center}
\end{table}

The spectra were calibrated from the source-only run using the known
energies of the emitted peaks. The shift in energy of the two largest
peaks were recorded. The expected range for each peak was determined by
interpolating the tabulated results from SRIM~\cite{SRIM}. The target
thickness was the difference in range for each peak between the degraded
and undegraded $\alpha$ energies.

During the experiment, the total time of beam on target was minimized to
limit the damage of the target from the incident beam. Total charge
accumulation on the order of 100~mC, with $\approx 75$~mC from the final
measurement runs. The longest measurement run deposited $\approx 25$~mC
on the target. At these levels, no appreciable change to the target
thickness during the experiment could be seen. The target thickness was
not remeasured following the end of the experimental campaign.


\subsubsection{Detector Properties}
The 16-strip Si detector was calibrated using a
\nuc{241}{Am}/\nuc{148}{Gd} mixed $\alpha$ source. Calibration runs were
taken before and after the data collection phase, since the bias voltage
was changed for the final runs. The final calibration run was taken with
the same electronics setup and detector installation as during the run,
except that the beam shield was removed.

Each strip and ADC were calibrated separately. A linear fit was used, as
there only the two highest intensity $\alpha$-particle peaks were
resolved. Bins were shown to be approximately 2~keV for every strip. The
resolution is cited for only the $E_{\alpha} = 3182.69$~keV peak from
\nuc{148}{Gd} as this is closer in energy to our expected particles. The
calibration constants and detector resolutions are shown in
Table~\ref{tab:calibration_results}.

The efficiencies of the individual strips were not determined and
assumed to be 100\,\% for all. Measurements of similar detectors for the
St.\ George detector system commissioning work showed $>99$\,\%
efficiencies across all strips.

The detector response shows low energy tails for both alpha peaks (see
Fig.~\ref{fig:response}). The data show that the $\alpha$ events may
fall outside of the two peaks. All events within our detector can then
be considered real events, reducing the reliance on the energy
calibration. The data also shows that the lower intensity \nuc{241}{Am}
$\alpha$ peaks cannot be resolved.

\begin{table}
    \begin{center}
        \caption{DETECTOR ENERGY CALIBRATION AND RESOLUTION}
        \label{tab:calibration_results}
        \begin{tabular}{cS[table-format=4.2]S[table-format=1.4]%
                S[table-format=1.2, table-space-text-post=\,\%]}
            \toprule
            \midrule
            {\textbf{Strip}} & {$\mathbf{a_0}$\textbf{ [keV]}} &
                {$\mathbf{a_1}$\textbf{ [keV/ch]}} &
                {\textbf{Resolution}} \\
            \midrule
             1 &  -85.61 & 1.6534 & 1.92\,\% \\
             2 & -165.12 & 1.7327 & 2.67\,\% \\
             3 & -123.66 & 1.5791 & 2.38\,\% \\
             4 & -172.41 & 1.6824 & 2.71\,\% \\
             5 & -194.53 & 1.6923 & 2.71\,\% \\
             6 & -235.36 & 1.7636 & 2.88\,\% \\
             7 & -202.59 & 1.7946 & 2.99\,\% \\
             8 & -203.93 & 1.8526 & 2.85\,\% \\
             9 & -269.19 & 1.8725 & 3.00\,\% \\
            10 & -252.46 & 1.8166 & 3.03\,\% \\
            11 & -243.02 & 1.8509 & 2.91\,\% \\
            12 & -272.25 & 1.8291 & 2.87\,\% \\
            13 & -235.06 & 1.8161 & 2.97\,\% \\
            14 & -172.81 & 1.7601 & 2.77\,\% \\
            15 & -235.26 & 1.8246 & 3.10\,\% \\
            16 & -110.00 & 1.6412 & 2.17\,\% \\
            \bottomrule
        \end{tabular}
    \end{center}
\end{table}

\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \centerline{\includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]%
            {figures/calibration_overlay.png}} \caption[Detector
            response example]{Example of the detector response from the
            energy calibration run. All 16 calibrated strips are
            overlayed to better show the overall trend. Long, low-energy
            tails from both calibration peaks can be seen. The counts in
            the lowest energy range are noise.}
        \label{fig:response}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}


\subsubsection{Separator Properties}
The energy resolving power is the minimum energy difference required to
resolve a peak from the central image peak assuming that the change in
energy is the only difference between the two peaks. By definition this
quantity is only a first-order value, so only those parameters with a
linear relationship with the position need be considered. The energy
resolving power of the separator in relation to the terms present in the
COSY transport map is defined as
\begin{equation}
    \delta_k(\textrm{RP}) \equiv
        \frac{2\left[(x|x)x_0 + (x|a)a_0\right]}{(x|\delta_k)},
\end{equation}
where $x_0$ and $a_0$ are the initial half-widths for position (in
meters) and angle (in radians), respectively, and the remaining terms
are the values from the transport map. The resolving power is only taken
in the horizontal plane due to the vertical symmetry of the separator.
The terms taken from the transport map are
\begin{align*}
    (x|x) &= 2.261610 \\
    (x|a) &= {-0.1368242} \\
    (x|\delta_k) &= {-0.2774295},
\end{align*}
where signs are conserved for completeness. The maximal deviation caused
by each terms is taken to be a positive value. The half-widths $x_0$ and
$a_0$ are physically limited by the target chamber and taken to be $x_0
= 1.5$~mm and $a_0 = 42$~mrad, giving a resolving power of
$\delta_k(\textrm{RP}) = 0.286$. Since the produced $\alpha$ particles
have an inherent spread in energy due to the incoming beam and the
particles themselves interacting with the target, the energy resolution
should be viewed as the window within which the energies are
indistinguishable. As this window covers the expected energy spread of
the produced $\alpha$ particles, there are no energy corrections
required across the detector strips.


\subsection{Yield Extraction}
For each energy, the number of $\alpha$-particle ejectiles produced was
the total sum of counts within each detector strip above the maximum
proton energy. Due to the detector response, any event above the noise
threshold at $\approx 200$~keV is a potential $\alpha$ event. There is
still the possibility that some of the incident proton beam strikes the
detector despite the rejection capabilities of St.\ George, so those
counts below the maximum proton energy are rejected. The maximum proton
energy is taken as the incident beam energy plus 3\,\% to be
conservative. Since the proton beam is degraded in energy based on its
interaction with the thin foil, this upper limit for the proton energy
and lower limit for the $\alpha$ energy range will prevent any
proton-induced counts from being counted. An example is shown in
Fig.~\ref{fig:proton_peak}. While most runs did not show a discernible
peak at the expected energy, this cut was still made. In those cases,
``lost'' counts were smaller than the statistical uncertainty of the
counts above the energy threshold.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \begin{center}
        \centerline{\includegraphics[width=0.85\textwidth]%
            {figures/proton_peak.png}} \caption[Possible proton
            peak]{Possible proton peak within the spectrum of a single
            ADC. Data is from Run 241 ($E_{\textrm{p}} = 1.1781$~MeV).
            The vertical dashed line shows the energy cut, with the
            potential beam peak below this energy. The remaining 15
            strips for this run showed a similar peak in both central
            energy and counts.}
        \label{fig:proton_peak}
    \end{center}
\end{figure}

Beam currents at the target location were recorded before and after each
run. For runs lasting longer than 15~m, the current was recorded every
15~m. The beam current was seen to fluctuate around the recorded value
by up to 100~nA. For runs with multiple current readings, the average
was taken as the nominal current. Time on target was recorded by the
acquisition system.

The total yield for each energy is given by $Y(E) = N_r / N_b$, where
$N_r$ is the number of reaction products produced and $N_b$ is the
number of incident beam particles. If we include the detector and
transport efficiency of our setup, and relate $N_b$ to our incident beam
current, our yield becomes
\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:yield}
    Y(E) = \frac{N_r}{\epsilon_d\epsilon_tI_bt}.
\end{equation}
In this case, we assume that the detector and transport efficiencies are
100\,\%, based on the usage of a Si detector and the setting of St.\
George to create a 100\,\% transmission state.

The uncertainties in the number of incident beam particles come from the
uncertainty in the collection time at the detector and the uncertainty
or walk within the incident beam current arriving at the target
location. Due to the start-up and shut-down timing for the DAQ, a time
uncertainty of 5~s was adopted for each run, which should be a
conservative value. Without the offset Si detector to measure scattering
at the target, we do not have a direct measure of the beam current
\textit{in situ} and must rely on the beam currents measured before and
after a given experimental run. From those measurements, and from
previous experimental runs using the 5U, an uncertainty of 0.1~$\mu$A
(less than 5\,\% in most cases) was adopted. Final uncertainty for the
number of incident particles is thus below a 5\,\% statistical
threshold.

% systematic for beam current stability...?

The uncertainty in the number of reaction products produced can be
divided between the statistical uncertainty in the counting of particles
at the detector and the systematic uncertainty of the missed particles
at the detector plane due to the tuning of the magnetic and
electrostatic elements of St.\ George. The statistical uncertainty of
the counts is $\approx 5$\,\%, as experimental runs were continued until
this point. The systematic uncertainty can be approximated by using the
additional runs performed before the actual experimental run, used to
finalize the tune of the Wien filter and to estimate the loss below the
detector position, to estimate the ``lost'' counts arising from the
final experimental configuration of the separator.

% determine systematic uncertainty


The mounted target is a $62.50\pm0.05$~$\mu$g/cm$^2$ self-supporting Al
foil provided by Dr.\ Simon's group at the NSL. The target thickness was
determined with a mixed \nuc{241}{Am}/\nuc{148}{Gd} $\alpha$ source,
providing $\alpha$ particles across the expected energy range, as shown
in Table~[REFERENCE]. Only the two highest intensity peaks in
\nuc{241}{Am} could be reliably discriminated from the background, thus
providing only three energy points for calibration purposes of the
detector. Target thicknesses were measured using an offline setup,
consisting of a Si detector within a vacuum chamber connected to a data
acquisition system. Data was recorded using MAESTRO for Windows
[REFERENCE] and converted using \texttt{pyne}.




\section{Detector Spectrum
Verification}\label{detector-spectrum-verification}

Due to the suboptimal energy resolution of the Si strip detector, caused
by the decreased bias voltage and increased leakage current, a
well-defined spectrum for the produced $\alpha$ particles was not
obtained. The spectra for each run and each strip show a wide peak at
the expected location of the $\alpha$ energy peak which we need to
verify that it represents the same underlying expected energy peak
produced in the reaction. This final verification is a convolution of
the incident beam energy, the properties of the target, the cross
section domain that we are probing, and the energy resolution of the
detector. Each of these components will be discussed in turn.

To reduce this check to a smaller subset of possibilities, only the two
resonance energy runs will be checked, but the same process described
below can be repeated for any energy in question, given the existence of
the required files to support the analysis.

This analysis relies on the usage of SRIM/TRIM [CITE] to generate the
files describing the target effects, and those files should be generated
according to the steps described below before the analysis is begun. The
file generation can be done programmatically following the SRIM user
guide, or ``by hand'' using the included GUI, both of which are standard
procedures and will not be discussed here.


\subsection{Assumptions}\label{assumptions}

In order to fully describe reaction process from incident beam to
detector energy spectrum, we must make some assumptions and check that
they are approximately true for the desired reaction.

First, the stopping power of the target must be slowly varying across
the width of the target. This assumption reduces the number of required
SRIM files, as described below. The definition of ``slowly varying'' in
this case is that the stopping power can be locally modeled as a linear
function of the beam energy, and that the coefficient relating the
energy to the stopping power be relatively small.

Second, knowledge of the underlying cross section is required. The
procudure described below can be inverted slightly to move from the
detector energy spectrum to the reaction cross section, knowing all
other parts, but this more-complex procedure was not required for the
reaction in question. Using known resonance properties, the
\react{\mnuc{27}{Al}}{rm{p}}{alpha}{} reaction cross section can be
modeled with the AZURE [CITE] $R$-Matrix code to produce the file. The
energies returned from this code should be transformed into lab
coordinates.

Third, the target should be thin enough that the beam can pass through
the target relatively unimpeded. Should this assumption not be met, the
procedure outlined must be updated to account for the additional
straggling, especially where the exit angle of the particles is
sufficiently spread out.

Finally, the thickness of the target in energy for the incident beam
energies must be known. Given that the thickness in $mu\rm{g}/\rm{cm}^2$
can be measured using standard techniques, the thickness in energy can
be determined by
\[
    EQUATION HERE,
\]
where $d\rm{E}/dx$ is the stopping power in units of [UNITS]. The target
thickness only needs to be determined for the incident beam, as this
defines the cross section energy domain.

The additional knowledge required to perform the following analysis,
such as the incident beam energy uncertainty and the detector energy
resolution, will not be discussed separately.


\subsection{Required SRIM Files}\label{required-srim-files}

The pre-generation of SRIM files requires special note to justify the
energy and depths used. In cases where the incident beam energy spread
is greater, the target is thicker, the stopping power varies quickly, or
any other deviation from the assumptions above, the procedure below must
be amended and additional SRIM files will most likely need to be
generated to account for those changes.

The incident beam files describe the target effects on the beam energy
at multiple depths within the target. To simplify, all incident
particles are assumed to strike the target perpendicular to the target,
and the angles for each particle following their interaction with the
target are saved but not used within the analysis. While the primary
goal of this portion of the analysis is verifying the energy spectrum,
the slight corrections to the energy loss attributed to the angle of the
particles, these corrections would be minimal and do not affect the
final result. The initial energies chosen for the incident beam protons
are the central resonance energies, and the energies chosen for the
$\alpha$ particles cover the expected range on possible energies based
on previous kinematics studies.

The depths probed for the target are in percents of the total thickness
in Angstroms. For this analysis, depths from 1 to 99\,\% in steps of
2\,\% were used, which provides adequate coverage of the energy loss
through the target while minimizing the amount of runs required for
SRIM. Both the incident beam protons and the produced $\alpha$ particles
require thicknesses across the entire range of the target thickness.
Note that depths of 0 and 100\,\% were not used; depths of zero percent
have no meaning for the incident beam case, and depths of 100\,\% are
unphysical since the incident particle will have left the target without
reacting.

All files simulated 10k particles, and the final energies of those
particles were saved.


\subsection{Simulating the reaction}\label{simulating-the-reaction}

The process below describes how the full reaction, from the incident
beam to the final detector energy spectrum, can be simulated. The SRIM
files required are assumed to be generated beforehand. The process has
been wrapped within the \verb+pyne+ package under the \verb+tree+
submodule, which takes as input the path to the generated files and the
masses and energies of the particles in question.

\subsubsection{Simulating the incident
beam}\label{simulating-the-incident-beam}

The incident beam energy for the resonance scans were determined by the
5U's analyzing magnet settings. The 5U provides a small energy
uncertainty particle beam to the target area, meaning that we have
approximately a monoenergetic beam striking our target. The generated
SRIM files for the incident beam are this central beam energy at
multiple depths within the target. To simulate the known spread of the
beam energy around this central value, the deviation from this central
value was randomly assigned, assuming a Gaussian distribution of
energies. The individual particle energies are given as
\[
    E_i \sim E_{\rm{Resonance}} + \rm{Normal}(0, \sigma),
\]
where $\sigma = 300$~eV is the measured beam energy uncertainty of the
5U.

The cross section that the incident particles will probe is defined by
the initial energy of the beam and the thickness of the target in units
of energy. For the target in question, the energy thickness is
approximately 10~keV for both resonances. The cross section within this
energy domain was determined for the central resonance energy, which is
an approximation that initially ignores the energy spread of the beam.
As this energy spread is less than 0.1\,\%, the effect of this choice is
minimal and helps to simplify the process since a single probability
distribution for the cross section needs to be determined. The cross
section within the energy range is divided into energy bins of 1\,\%,
with the values interpolated where the results of the $R$-matrix
calculation do not match with the integer depth values. These depths are
then randomly chosen based on the normalized cross section in that
region. An example is shown in [FIGURE].

[FIGURE]

Once a simulated depth is assigned to each particle, the SRIM results at
that depth are used to simulate the final energy of that particle before
it reacts with the target. As the energy distributions returned by SRIM
are not analytic, we can draw from the 10k simulated values, assuming
equal probability for each, which for large sample sizes is
approximately equivalent. Each incident particle is now associated with
an initial energy deviation from the resonance energy, the depth at
which it reacts, and a final energy at that depth. The initial simulated
energy is added to the final energy to give the textit{reaction energy}
of the incident proton.


\subsubsection{Simulating the produced
particles}\label{simulating-the-produced-particles}

From these reaction energies, the $\alpha$ energy is determined through
basic kinematics. Again, any potential angular spreads are not
considered for this stage. As the detected $\alpha$ particles left the
target within a solid angle cone of opening angle 40~mrad, we know that
we are limited to a small solid angle region that we are actually seeing
at the detector. The produced $\alpha$ particles now have an initial
energy and a depth within the target, meaning that each particle also
has a known target thickness that they must pass through.

The generated $\alpha$ particle SRIM files are used to find the exit
energy of the particles in the same way that the final proton energy was
found above. In this case, instead of the energies being defined in
reference to a well-defined input energy, the deviation from the closest
generated $\alpha$ energy in the SRIM files is used, and that file is
used to simulate the exit energy for that particle's depth. The energy
deviation is added back to the simulated energy drawn from the samples
obtained through SRIM to give a final \textit{exit energy} for that
$\alpha$ particle.


\subsubsection{Detector spectrum
comparison}\label{detector-spectrum-comparison}

The generated exit energy spectrum of the $\alpha$ particles describes
the energy of the recoils as they enter St.\ George. The angle of these
particles can be descirbed by the kinematics of the reaction instead of
through the SRIM calculations, so the angle is again ignored for these
particles. Since this analysis is focused on the energy spectrum seen at
the detector, the angular effects do not need to enter into this
calculation.

The energy resolution of the detector was previously measured to be
[VALUE] (see [SECTION]), which we must convolve with the exit energy of
the $\alpha$ particles. For each particle, a random energy was generated
from a Gaussian distribution centered around that particle's exit
energy, according to
\[
    E_{\rm{detector}} = \rm{Normal}(E_{\rm{exit}},\sigma_{\rm{detector}}),
\]
where $\sigma_{\rm{detector}}$ is the energy resolution of the detector.
This final spectrum is a representation of what the experimenter would
see from the detector system and must be related to the actual
experimental data.

Note that this spectrum assumed that every particle that entered our
target reacted, so we can't directly use it to measure the yield.
Relating this simulation to the actual spectrum can be done by scaling
each particle to the cross section at the location it ``reacted'', and
scaling the number of particles at each final energy by a factor
proportional to the determined incident beam current during this
experiment. An alternative approach is to scale both the simulated
spectrum and the measured spectrum to unit area, which would conserve
the number of particles reaching the detector. The previous two options
are useful for checking if the calculated reaction rate in the two cases
are consistent with each other. A final option would be to see if the
two spectra could have been generated from the same underlying
distribution, which avoids having to scale either distribution, through
a KS test.

The simulated distribution is approximately Gaussian, but the actual
distribution is a skewed Gaussian due to the detector response (seen in
energy resolution studies too). Not sure how to model this...


\subsection{SRIM Results}

Insert this here, maybe...?
